README.md, before:

# Horus Holdings

## Overview

Horus Holdings is a sophisticated cash flow management tool designed to help users track their incomes and expenses, providing a clear visualization of their cash flow over time.

Named after the Egyptian god Horus, who symbolizes protection, stability, and prosperity, this application aims to bring financial clarity and control to its users. By offering robust user authentication, Horus Holdings ensures that each user's financial data remains secure and private, echoing the protective nature of its namesake.

![Frontend Demo](assets/frontend-demo.png)

## Quickstart

To quickly get started with Horus Holdings using Docker, you can use the provided `quickstart.sh` script. This script will set up and run both the MySQL database and the Horus Holdings application in Docker containers.

```bash
./scripts/quickstart.sh
```

This script will:
- Pull the latest MySQL and Horus Holdings Docker images.
- Run the MySQL container with the specified environment variables.
- Wait for MySQL to initialize.
- Run the Horus Holdings container with the necessary environment variables.
- Output the URLs where the frontend and backend are accessible.

## Folder Structure

The application consists of a frontend and a backend:
- **Frontend**: Located in the `./src` directory.
- **Backend**: Located in the `./server` directory.

## Database Requirement

The application requires a MySQL database to store user data. You need to set up a MySQL database and provide the connection details in the environment variables.

### Setting Up MySQL Database

1. **Install MySQL**: Follow the instructions for your operating system to install MySQL.
2. **Create a Database**: Create a new database for the application. For example:
   ```sql
   CREATE DATABASE devdb;
   ```
3. **Create a User**: Create a new user and grant privileges to the database. For example:
   ```sql
   CREATE USER 'root'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY 'admin';
   GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON devdb.* TO 'root'@'localhost';
   FLUSH PRIVILEGES;
   ```

### Running MySQL Database Locally Using Docker

For development purposes, you can run the MySQL database locally using a Docker container. Use the following command to start the MySQL container:

```sh
docker run -d --name mysql-dev \
   -e MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=admin \
   -e MYSQL_DATABASE=devdb \
   --network host \
   mysql:latest
```

This command will start a MySQL container with the specified environment variables.

## Building and Running the Application in a Container

The `Dockerfile` is set up to build both the frontend and backend applications in separate stages and then combine them into a final image.

### Steps to Build and Run the Container

1. **Build the Docker Image**:
   ```sh
   docker build -t horus-holdings:latest .
   ```

2. **Run the Docker Container**:
   ```sh
   docker run -d --name horus \
      --network host \
      -e DATABASE_URL=mysql://root:admin@localhost:3306/devdb \
      -e CORS_ORIGIN=http://localhost:3000 \
      -e JWT_SECRET=super-secret \
      horus-holdings:latest
   ```

This will start the frontend on port 3000 and the backend on port 5000.

## Environment Variables

The following environment variables are required to run the application:

- `DATABASE_URL`: The URL for the database connection.
- `CORS_ORIGIN`: The origin allowed for CORS.
- `JWT_SECRET`: The secret key used for JWT authentication.


## Running the Application Locally

To run the application locally, you need to have Node.js and Yarn installed.

### Steps to Run Locally

1. **Install Dependencies**:
   ```sh
   yarn install:all
   ```

2. **Set Up Environment Variables**:
   Create a `.env` file in the `./server` directory with the following content:
   ```env
   DATABASE_URL=mysql://root:admin@127.0.0.1:3306/devdb
   JWT_SECRET=your_secret_key
   CORS_ORIGIN=http://localhost:3000
   NODE_ENV=development
   ```

3. **Run the Application**:
   ```sh
   yarn dev
   ```

This will start both the frontend and backend applications concurrently.

Commit message:

Fix env substitution for ws and api proxy connections

README.md, after:

# Horus Holdings

## Overview

Horus Holdings is a sophisticated cash flow management tool designed to help users track their incomes and expenses, providing a clear visualization of their cash flow over time.

Named after the Egyptian god Horus, who symbolizes protection, stability, and prosperity, this application aims to bring financial clarity and control to its users. By offering robust user authentication, Horus Holdings ensures that each user's financial data remains secure and private, echoing the protective nature of its namesake.

![Frontend Demo](assets/frontend-demo.png)

## Quickstart

To quickly get started with Horus Holdings using Docker, you can use the provided `quickstart.sh` script. This script will set up and run both the MySQL database and the Horus Holdings application in Docker containers.

```bash
./scripts/quickstart.sh
```

This script will:
- Pull the latest MySQL and Horus Holdings Docker images.
- Run the MySQL container with the specified environment variables.
- Wait for MySQL to initialize.
- Run the Horus Holdings container with the necessary environment variables.
- Output the URLs where the frontend and backend are accessible.

## Folder Structure

The application consists of a frontend and a backend:
- **Frontend**: Located in the `./src` directory.
- **Backend**: Located in the `./server` directory.

## Database Requirement

The application requires a MySQL database to store user data. You need to set up a MySQL database and provide the connection details in the environment variables.

### Setting Up MySQL Database

1. **Install MySQL**: Follow the instructions for your operating system to install MySQL.
2. **Create a Database**: Create a new database for the application. For example:
   ```sql
   CREATE DATABASE devdb;
   ```
3. **Create a User**: Create a new user and grant privileges to the database. For example:
   ```sql
   CREATE USER 'root'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY 'admin';
   GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON devdb.* TO 'root'@'localhost';
   FLUSH PRIVILEGES;
   ```

### Running MySQL Database Locally Using Docker

For development purposes, you can run the MySQL database locally using a Docker container. Use the following command to start the MySQL container:

```sh
docker run -d --name mysql-dev \
   -e MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=admin \
   -e MYSQL_DATABASE=devdb \
   --network host \
   mysql:latest
```

This command will start a MySQL container with the specified environment variables.

## Building and Running the Application in a Container

The `Dockerfile` is set up to build both the frontend and backend applications in separate stages and then combine them into a final image.

### Steps to Build and Run the Container

1. **Build the Docker Image**:
   ```sh
   docker build -t horus-holdings:latest .
   ```

2. **Run the Docker Container**:
   ```sh
   docker run -d --name horus \
      --network host \
      -e DATABASE_URL=mysql://root:admin@localhost:3306/devdb \
      -e CORS_ORIGIN=http://localhost \
      -e JWT_SECRET=super-secret \
      -e CLIENT_API_SCHEME=http \
      -e CLIENT_PROXY_SCHEME=ws \
      -e CLIENT_PROXY_HOST=localhost \
      -e CLIENT_PROXY_PORT=5000 \
      -e CLIENT_PROXY_PATH=/ws \
      horus-holdings:latest
   ```

This will start the frontend on port 80 and the backend on port 5000.

## Environment Variables

The following environment variables are required to run the application:

- DATABASE_URL: The URL for the database connection.
- CORS_ORIGIN: The origin allowed for CORS.
- JWT_SECRET: The secret key used for JWT authentication.
- CLIENT_API_SCHEME: The scheme used for API requests (e.g., http or https). Defaults to https if not provided.
- CLIENT_PROXY_HOST: The host used for WebSocket connections. Defaults to localhost if not provided.
- CLIENT_PROXY_PORT: The port used for WebSocket connections. Defaults to 5000 if not provided.
- CLIENT_PROXY_PATH: The path used for WebSocket connections. Defaults to /ws if not provided.

### Default Values

If the following environment variables are not provided, the application will use these defaults:

- CLIENT_API_SCHEME: Defaults to https.
- CLIENT_PROXY_HOST: Defaults to localhost.
- CLIENT_PROXY_PORT: Defaults to 5000.
- CLIENT_PROXY_PATH: Defaults to /ws.

## Running the Application Locally

To run the application locally, you need to have Node.js and Yarn installed.

### Steps to Run Locally

1. **Install Dependencies**:
   ```sh
   yarn install:all
   ```

2. **Set Up Environment Variables**:
   Create a `.env` file in the `./server` directory with the following content:
   ```env
   DATABASE_URL=mysql://root:admin@127.0.0.1:3306/devdb
   JWT_SECRET=your_secret_key
   CORS_ORIGIN=http://localhost:3000
   NODE_ENV=development
   ```

3. **Run the Application**:
   ```sh
   yarn dev
   ```

This will start both the frontend and backend applications concurrently.
